Hi.
We did this lecture.
Where are you going to start learning about loops so loops are great tools to implement some operation
repetitively as long as our condition halts.
So we're gonna see what that means in real examples in a minute.
So let me create a new playground over here and name it loops.
So I'm gonna go over to my desktop and save its savings into my AOS complete folder.
And now we're ready.
So we're going to learn about this loop.
So we're going to perform an operation in every bit that's a vey as long as a condition holds.
OK.
And the first loop that we gonna learn is called Why you loop so we're going to say vital this condition
holds.
Do the following.
And in order to do that we have to learn about some mathematical notations in X code in Swift actually.
So let me say that I have a number and this number is of 1.
So I can add some new thing to this number by saying that my number is now my number plus 1.
So if I call my number right now what will happen to my number.
It will be to write because it will add 1 to 1 and it will find 2.
So this is easy.
And we have another way of doing this.
And it is even easier.
So you can do it like this plus equals 2 1.
And these two lines are exactly the same.
So it means that my number equals my number plus 1.
So if I do this one more time and if I call my number what will happen to my number.
So it will be three.
Right.
It goes.
It started as a 1 and we added 1.
So we came up with two and now we added 1 and we came up the tree so why are we using this.
Because I'm going to use this technique in the loops as well.
So right now you know how to add one or how to do this.
Plus equals think and it works for minus as well.
So you can't say minus equals to 1 and it will subtract one from my number and at the end of this lecture
re going to learn how to compare some numbers for example how to compare my number with one hub to see
if my number is less than 1 greater than 1.
And we will use this a lot during when we building apps.
OK.
So let's suppose that I have a number zero.
So this is another variable and its value is zero.
And we're going to use this number inside of our via a loop.
So basically we're going to use the key verbs wild.
OK.
Call while n after the vile statement you have to give your condition.
So we literally gonna say while this condition holds.
Do the following.
OK.
And maybe you realize that while is shown in pink and so Wah and so import so we are he importing your
library here.
So these keywords are shown in a different color.
So these are these are predefined keywords so that we can understand something will happen when we use
those keywords.
And again while is one of them OK.
And we didn't really talk about library so what did what does it mean to impart some you like it.
So you like it basically provides the basic functionality so that we can use SWIFT code we can see the
inputs and outputs we can reach the String class we can reach the integers and everything.
OK we're going to import another library is later on during our course.
Don't worry about this right now.
So for example I can do this while my number is less than 10.
So that's what I was talking about.
We're going to compare this number.
So what does this mean.
I say while number is less than 10.
I open that curly brace and it closes it automatically.
So remember this creates a coding block for me.
And what they were I write here will be only called inside of a while loop so will be only executed
inside of while loop.
So whatever I write here is only going to be executed while number is less than 10.
So for example let me print the number and let me add the one to my number.
So let's see what will happen.
Let me run this and you will see what I mean in the logs you will see 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9.
So that's fantastic.
How did it happen.
So as long as number was less than 10.
This vent in a loop.
So it started with zero.
And it was less than 10.
So it printed out zero.
And it added the one to zero and it went back to the beginnings and it controlled one more time one
was less than 10 and it printed out the one and it added one to the one it vent up until nine.
So it printed out nine and it added one to the nine and it it was 10 right now.
So ten was not less than 10.
So our loop was and that's OK.
So as long as no was less than 10 it got executed.
And once it was more than 10 it stopped being executed.
So if I change this to less than an equal to it will also print out the ten eyes you might see.
So you can't change this number I can play with it and you will see that as long as this condition holds
this will continue.
So writing this will continue printing and as you can see well they were right inside of this block
coding block is only got egg is being executed inside of this why a loop.
So we're going to learn about if later on but let me create a character over here so I'm going to call
this var character alive.
True.
So I can check to see if my character is alive condition holds so I can just go over here and say vile
character alive is true.
Do the following.
Right.
So it doesn't have to be an integer.
It doesn't have to be less than greater than.
So I can just say like this wild character alive is true.
Then do the following.
For example you can print out and why am I using two equations two equal size rather than one.
If I do two equals size it means that just check if they're equal or not.
If I do one equals sign it means that make it equals.
OK so when I use to equal size I am checking for something to see if they are true or not.
So in this case I am checking to see if the character alive is actually true.
So while character alive is true I'm going to print character alive and of course I'm going to say character
alive.
False.
So this will get only just rum one time because it will change it to false and it will stop doing this
and it doesn't make sense I know.
But if I don't do this it will be an infinite loop so we will see an infinite number of character alive
printing over here because it won't just break out of the loop.
It won't stop the loop so just for an example I did that so that you would see you can use a boolean
you can't see any teacher you can even use as string in here as well.
So while this condition holds and the condition doesn't even matter as long as it makes sense obviously.
So right now let me show you the other checkpoints like we can do something like this right.
So tree is less than 5 so you can control to see if tree is less than 5 and it will give you at 2 boolean.
So this is indeed less than 5 and you can do something like this 5 is less than 3 and it will give you
false.
So this is less than of course you can do a greater of them.
Okay.
Life is greater than 3.
You can go for less than or equal to greater done and equal to as well.
And you can do something like this equal to two equal size so important here.
Greater than equal to first greater sign later equals sign.
So less than an equal to less sign equals sign.
And if you're checking for being equal to equal size and actually we have something called a not equal
to as well.
So you can't control like this exclamation point and an equal sign.
So it means that this is not equal to and as you can see we get to as the output of this so this is
kind of cool right.
We can use this kind of mathematical operations in our coats and we're going to use those a lot.
And even if we're not using those with integers we're using these widths billions of strings and everything.
Later on we're going to go a little bit deeper on this subject as well.
Right now I'm going to stop here and within the next lecture we're going to continue with another loop
called for loop.